# Sentiment-Analysis-on-COVID-19-using-Twitter-Tweets

The coronavirus disease (COVID-19) is an infectious disease caused by a newly discovered virus.
At this time, there are no specific vaccines for COVID-19. However, there are many ongoing clinical trials evaluating potential treatments. Sentiment analysis is the automated process of identifying and extracting the subjective information that underlies a text. This can be either an opinion, a judgment, or a feeling about a particular topic or subject. The most common type of sentiment analysis is called ‘polarity detection’ and involves classifying a statement as ‘positive’, ‘negative’, or ‘neutral’. Sentiment analysis is particularly useful for social media monitoring because it goes beyond the number of likes or retweets, by providing qualitative insights. Social media platforms like Facebook, Twitter, and Instagram have been actively working on scrutinizing and fact-checking to fight against misinformation. As more reliable sources get amplified, Twitter becomes more supportive than it was during the early stage of the outbreak. I believe it is of interest to understand the real public voice and discover the true sentiment regarding the coronavirus. So, my project is to get the twitter tweets, clean the data, analyze the text and to get the sentimental score out of data as to check whether the tweets are positive or negative

The dataset for our study is from the COVID-19 tweets repository by University of Southern California available on github. The dataset consists of tweetIDs collected from the months of January to June 2020 and September 2020 will be included in this study. COVID-19 was declared a pandemic in the US in March and as such our time-points of interest are January to February, March, April to June and recent tweets in September. The datasets will need to be hydrated as they only contain tweetIDs due to restrictions of Twitter’s data sharing policy. With the use of the DocNow hydrator, I hydrated the tweet IDs to get the full tweets and other user features (Appendix I). I plan to also use the Twitter API upon building, training and testing our model to capture more recent tweets using the repositories' same keywords to validate our classifier’s performance as an additional feature of our models. The manual annotations that have to be completed are the hydration process. This will be completed for each monthly dataset. 

Data Sources
-	COVID-19-Tweet ID with date:s https://github.com/echen102/COVID-19-TweetIDs
-	COVID-19 Sentiment labeled tweets: https://ieee-dataport.org/open-access/coronavirus-covid-19-tweets-dataset
-	Twitter API using COVID-19 related keywords: https://developer.twitter.com/en/docs

Sentiment analysis uses machine learning algorithms and natural language processing (NLP) to organize unstructured text data automatically. Sentiment analysis algorithms are able to learn from data samples to detect the polarity of Tweets. For this process, the tweets need to be trained to recognize sentiment in tweets. In this project, I am implementing three models. Firstly, a prebuilt sentiment analyzer such as VADER analyzer will be used as our baseline solution to be able to gauge how well our manually built sentiment analysis models work. 
